— Apple Inc. Form 10-K, fiscal 2001 (filed 2001-12-21) — Item 1, Business —

Item 1. Business

Company Background Apple Computer, Inc. ("Apple" or the "Company") was incorporated under the laws of the state of California on January 3, 1977. The Company designs, manufactures and markets personal computers and related personal computing and communicating solutions for sale primarily to education, creative, consumer, and business customers. Substantially all of the Company's net sales over the last five years have been derived from the sale of its Apple® Macintosh® line of personal computers and related software and peripherals.

Business Strategy Apple is committed to bringing the best possible personal computing experience to students, educators, creative professionals, businesses and consumers around the world through its innovative hardware, software, and Internet offerings. The Company believes that personal computing is entering a new era in which the personal computer will function for both professionals and consumers as the digital hub for advanced new digital devices such as digital music players, personal digital assistants, digital still and movie cameras, CD and DVD players, and other electronic devices. The attributes of the personal computer, including its ability to run complex applications, possess a high quality user interface, contain large and relatively inexpensive storage, and easily connect to the Internet in multiple ways and at varying speeds, can individually add value to these devices and interconnect them as well. Apple is the only company in the PC industry that designs and manufactures the entire personal computer – from the hardware and operating system to sophisticated applications, and ties it all together with Apple's innovative industrial design, intuitive ease-of-use, and built-in networking, graphics, and multimedia capabilities – uniquely positioning the Company to offer digital hub products and solutions.

Business Organization The Company manages its business primarily on a geographic basis. The Company's geographic operating segments include the Americas, Europe, Japan, and Asia Pacific. The Americas segment includes both North and South America, except for the Company's Retail segment which operates Apple-owned retail stores in the United States. The Europe segment includes European countries as well as the Middle East and Africa. The Japan segment includes only Japan, while the Asia Pacific segment includes Australia and Asia except for Japan. Each geographic operating segment provides similar hardware and software products and similar services. Non-geographic operating segments include the Company's subsidiary, FileMaker, Inc. and the Company's Retail segment. Further information regarding the Company's operating segments may be found in Part II, Item 7 of this Form 10-K under the heading "Segment Operating Performance," and in Part II, Item 8 on this Form 10-K in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements at Note 11, "Segment Information and Geographic Data," which information is hereby incorporated by reference.

Principal Hardware Products The Company offers a range of personal computing products including desktop and notebook personal computers, related devices and peripherals, networking and connectivity products, and various third-party hardware products. All of the Company's Macintosh products utilize PowerPC® RISC-based microprocessors. Further information regarding the Company's products may be found in Part II, Item 7 of this Form 10-K under the heading "Factors That May Affect Future Results and Financial Condition," which information is hereby incorporated by reference.

Power Mac™

The Power Mac line of desktop personal computers is targeted at business and professional users and is designed to meet the speed, expansion and networking needs of the most demanding Macintosh user. With the addition of Apple server and networking software, Power Mac systems can be used as workgroup servers. Apple's SuperDrive™, a combination CD-RW/DVD-R drive that can burn DVDs which can be played in consumer DVD players, is standard equipment on high-end Power Mac models. In July 2001, the Company announced it had suspended indefinitely production and sale of the G4 Cube, a Power Mac system introduced in 2000 that was designed for users seeking more power coupled with a small size.

PowerBook®

The PowerBook family of portable computers is specifically designed to meet the mobile computing needs of professionals and advanced consumer users. The Company's current PowerBook line, the Titanium PowerBook G4, was introduced in January 2001. The Titanium PowerBook is a full-featured notebook computer that incorporates PowerPC G4 processors, TFT wide-screen active-matrix displays, and advanced networking and graphics capabilities. The Titanium PowerBook G4 is one inch thick, weighs 5.3 pounds and is encased in a pure-grade titanium body.

iMac®

The iMac line of desktop computers is targeted at education and consumer markets. Current iMac computers feature innovative industrial design, easy Internet access, built-in support for AirPort® wireless networking, fan-less operation, and PowerPC G3 processors, making them suitable for a wide range of education and consumer applications. Three of the four current iMac standard configurations come standard with slot-loading CD-RW drives.
