— Apple Inc. Form 10-K, fiscal 2018 (filed 2018-11-05) — Item 1, Business —

Item 1.

Business

Company Background

The Company designs, manufactures and markets mobile communication and media devices and personal computers, and sells a variety of related software, services, accessories and third-party digital content and applications. The Company’s products and services include iPhone®, iPad®, Mac®, Apple Watch®, AirPods®, Apple TV®, HomePod™, a portfolio of consumer and professional software applications, iOS, macOS®, watchOS® and tvOS™ operating systems, iCloud®, Apple Pay® and a variety of other accessory, service and support offerings. The Company sells and delivers digital content and applications through the iTunes Store®, App Store®, Mac App Store, TV App Store, Book Store and Apple Music® (collectively “Digital Content and Services”). The Company sells its products worldwide through its retail stores, online stores and direct sales force, as well as through third-party cellular network carriers, wholesalers, retailers and resellers. In addition, the Company sells a variety of third-party Apple-compatible products, including application software and various accessories, through its retail and online stores. The Company sells to consumers, small and mid-sized businesses and education, enterprise and government customers. The Company’s fiscal year is the 52- or 53-week period that ends on the last Saturday of September. The Company is a California corporation established in 1977.

Business Strategy

The Company is committed to bringing the best user experience to its customers through its innovative hardware, software and services. The Company’s business strategy leverages its unique ability to design and develop its own operating systems, hardware, application software and services to provide its customers products and solutions with innovative design, superior ease-of-use and seamless integration. As part of its strategy, the Company continues to expand its platform for the discovery and delivery of digital content and applications through its Digital Content and Services, which allows customers to discover and download or stream digital content, iOS, Mac, Apple Watch and Apple TV applications, and books through either a Mac or Windows personal computer or through iPhone, iPad and iPod touch® devices (“iOS devices”), Apple TV, Apple Watch and HomePod. The Company also supports a community for the development of third-party software and hardware products and digital content that complement the Company’s offerings. The Company believes a high-quality buying experience with knowledgeable salespersons who can convey the value of the Company’s products and services greatly enhances its ability to attract and retain customers. Therefore, the Company’s strategy also includes building and expanding its own retail and online stores and its third-party distribution network to effectively reach more customers and provide them with a high-quality sales and post-sales support experience. The Company believes ongoing investment in research and development (“R&D”), marketing and advertising is critical to the development and sale of innovative products, services and technologies.

Products

iPhone

iPhone is the Company’s line of smartphones based on its iOS operating system. iPhone includes Siri®, an intelligent assistant, and Apple Pay, Touch ID® and Face ID® on qualifying devices. In September 2018, the Company introduced three new iPhones. iPhone Xs and Xs Max feature a Super Retina™ OLED display, an all-screen stainless steel and glass design, faster processors and enhanced cameras, and were available beginning in September 2018. iPhone XR features a Liquid Retina™ LCD display in an all-screen aluminum and glass design, and was available beginning in October 2018. The Company’s line of smartphones also includes iPhone 8, 8 Plus, 7 and 7 Plus models. iPhone works with the iTunes Store, App Store, Book Store and Apple Music for purchasing, organizing and playing digital content and apps.

iPad

iPad is the Company’s line of multi-purpose tablets based on its iOS operating system, which includes iPad Pro®, iPad and iPad mini®. iPad includes Siri, Apple Pay and Touch ID. In March 2018, the Company released a new 9.7-inch iPad with Apple Pencil® compatibility. In October 2018, the Company introduced a new version of iPad Pro as well as a new Apple Pencil and Smart Keyboard Folio™. The new 11-inch and 12.9-inch iPad Pro models feature a Liquid Retina LCD display in an all-screen aluminum and glass design and integrate Face ID. iPad works with the iTunes Store, App Store, Book Store and Apple Music for purchasing, organizing and playing digital content and apps.

Mac

Mac is the Company’s line of desktop and portable personal computers based on its macOS operating system. Mac includes Siri and supports Apple Pay, and also includes Touch ID on qualifying devices. The Company’s desktop computers include iMac® 21.5-inch, iMac 21.5-inch with Retina® 4K display, iMac 27-inch with Retina 5K display, iMac Pro®, Mac Pro® and Mac mini®. The Company’s portable computers include MacBook®, MacBook Air®, MacBook Pro® and MacBook Pro with Touch Bar™. In October 2018, the Company introduced a new MacBook Air featuring a Retina display and Touch ID, and a new Mac mini with upgraded performance.
